I don't think I've ever seen this before
AMD is launching a new series of mobile
CPUs and the laptop they sent over is
fine except that it's limited to about
half of the power of all these competing
devices when you limit power you limit
performance and who in their right mind
would possibly want to Great Scott it
wins
anyway that's right folks it turns out
ryzen AI 300 is so good that AMD took
the performance Crown anyway not only
that but with a claimed 32% increase in
performance per watt AMD is set to
absolutely Crush their longtime x86
competitor when it comes to efficiency
as well of course though x86 is no
longer the only daxon in the wiener dog
race a month ago qualcom came out of
absolutely nowhere and absolutely
embarrassed the rest of the industry
with their onew punch of great battery
life and performance is ryzen AI 300
enough to fend off the impending arm
Invasion and can I fend off this
invasion of Segways to our
sponsor build Redux get into the world
of PC gaming the easy way with build
Redux pick your games see the
performance and they'll put everything
together for you they love doing it and
they love you check him out using the
link below in front of me is the new
Asus Zenbook s16 powered by the brand
new
dear Lord AMD ryzen AI 9hx
370 I'm sorry guys I mean the chip is
really good but this has to be the worst
naming scheme that we've seen in years
and this is right after we just made an
entire video about how AMD is
intentionally using their naming schemes
to mislead their customers almost
everything else about it is great though
it's built on tsmc's near Cutting Edge 4
NM node and we get an extra four cores
compared to last gen and while the base
frequency is just 2 GHz this little 12
core 24 thread monster can boost up to
5.1 GHz if the power and thermals of
your laptop allow it I bring up power
limits here because if you look in front
of me we've got a MacBook Pro and also
three Asus Vivo books featuring the same
50 W TDP but with three different
processors now the plan was for us to
also get a Vivo book with the ryzen AI
300 but we didn't so our ryzen AI is
running at just 28 Watts so much for our
Apples to Apples Showdown and almost
this entire review but then we were like
okay I mean we know this isn't a fair
comparison but why don't we try it
anyway and how could this possibly
happen our ryzen AI 300 easily beats its
last generation x86 competitors and
while Qualcomm appears to still be in
the lead here you got to remember that
Snapdragon chip is running at 50 watts
to see how much that difference was
impacting our test we got our hands on a
Dell XPS 13 that also has a 28 watt TDP
and would you look at that when matched
for power these two CPUs are darn near
matched for performance as well AMD
takes a slight lead in multicore while
Qualcomm edges them out in single core
but neither of these differences are the
kind that you would notice in Daily
usage the same can't be said about Apple
however whose last gen M3 still manages
to Gap everyone in single core
performance I'm really looking forward
to M4 now keeping in mind the power
disparity AMD takes a win in av1
encoding while Qualcomm edges the
mountain x264 in Photoshop AMD once
again beats out everyone on Windows only
to be promptly put in their place by
Apple and Adobe premere Pro is a similar
story just with some of the pages ripped
out of the book because our Qualcomm
device simply wouldn't open the program
helping to make amd's case that
emulation is still no substitute for
Native x86 Hardware of course these are
laptop CPUs so for many of you heavy
workloads are irrelevant and all that
really matters is battery life
and hot Smokies as AMD ever improved
here too our Zenbook lasted over 11
hours away from a plug now this isn't a
perfect test the Zenbook has a bit more
raw battery capacity than the Vivo book
and the screen isn't the same either but
those small differences cannot account
for the incredible 3our Improvement that
we see over the last generation it
doesn't quite close the gap with
Qualcomm but it puts AMD in the same
ballpark as Apple for the first time
since the M1 and AMD has a very
compelling reason why you might Overlook
any small deficiencies here and it's
gaming AMD was already in the lead for
integrated graphics and I'm talking Rob
performance features driver support it's
been a one wiener race effectively but
that doesn't mean they can afford to get
complacent and they haven't in ryzen AI
300 we get their new rdna 3.5
architecture which takes AMD from
winning gaming to absolutely dominating
it I mean even when our Qualcomm system
can launch the game which is about half
the time based on our recent test stream
AMD offers up a difference in animation
smoothness and in graphical Fidelity
that will be obvious to BAS basically
anyone there is an elephant in the room
though a boring boring elephant you
probably noticed that the ryzen 300 name
has AI shoehorned right in the middle of
it so how is it at AI well AMD is very
proud that their new npu or neural
processing unit has a whopping 50 tops
that are dedicated to AI acceleration
which beats qualcomm's 45
tops neat so to test it we fired up UL
prion and it didn't work so we opened up
one of Microsoft's new co-pilot plus
programs and but those aren't supported
yet either no but don't worry according
to amd's notes ryzen AI processors work
great in the programs you use every day
like amuse hugging face and
agentic
sorry now to be clear the inclusion of
an npu is appreciated and programs that
you've heard of will surely take
advantage of it someday it's just that
including it right in the middle of the
product name makes it seem more
important than it is right now when it
isn't even compatible enough for us to
test it and I hope that this is a trend
that stops dead I mean they didn't call
the last gen ryzen av1 decode 6000
series and we didn't call this shirt
screwdriver 40% polyester now available
on LTT store.com sorry I got going on
naming again didn't I I shouldn't
because there are other problems too and
arguably bigger ones out of the gate
ryzen AI 300 has no support for so dim
memory that means that not only is there
no way to upgrade the RAM on this laptop
there is no way for any laptop
manufacturer like framework investment
disclosure to design a ryzen AI 300
laptop that can be upgraded it is
possible that they will change this in
the future and I really hope they do
because I believe it would be an
excellent selling point for the platform
currently qualcomm's chips have zero
sodium support and rumors suggest that
Intel's upcoming lunar Lake will be the
same meaning you have to pay upfront
from all three major processor vendors
for all of the memory that you plan to
need laptop manufacturers love this kind
of thing but it sucks skunk juice for
consumers another thing that sucks on
ryzen AI 300 is Wi-Fi AMD unfortunately
has partnered with mediatech who
exclusively provides Wireless chipsets
for their devices and from our
experience lately they just kind of suck
multiple members of our team including
me have used AMD laptops for work over
the last couple of years and all of them
have noticed problems with Wi-Fi
dropouts reconnection issues and just
general flakiness this sort of thing is
hard to quantify so the best we could
come up with to put a number to it is we
tested how long it takes for each of our
devices to reconnect to the same Wi-Fi
access point and it turns out the AMD
machines took a solid 2 seconds longer
than Intel and Qualcomm which doesn't
sound like a whole lot but it's just
meant to be illustrative of how it's not
quite as good of an experience and from
what I've seen that 2 seconds is far
from the worst you might encounter
another thing that might or might not
matter to you is webcam quality AMD is
doing okay here but they are probably a
couple of generations away from snapd
Dragon's Superior image signal
processing all of which is pretty minor
though compared to our last big drawback
naming again and I'm going somewhere
with this right now there are only two
SKS in the ryzen AI 300 series which get
12 and 10 cores respectively but in the
past this would have been as many as six
SKS with a u suffix for low power HS for
middle of the road and HX for allout
performance this told to At a Glance
roughly what class of laptop you were
looking at well not anymore now a single
processor can be anywhere from 15 to 54
watts of power so unless laptop makers
start publishing the power limits of the
CPUs in their designs your friend's
laptop could have access to literally
3.6 times the power of yours despite
both having the exact same
name I mean we were very impressed by
the capabilities of our power limited
chip enough so that we were comfortable
reviewing it against higher power chips
and it still did great but we feel this
practice is unnecessarily misleading and
is an ugly stain on what should
otherwise have been a total Victory lap
of a launch for AMD and there's one last
catch the price we weren't able to find
any perfect Apples to Apples comparisons
on price but it seems like laptops with
amd's l latest and greatest are going to
come with roughly a $100 premium over
the last gen and you can see that for
yourself at the links down below this
certainly raises some questions about
value for AMD with that said though
until Intel actually ships lunar Lake
AMD is the only choice for laptops with
a proper GPU completely eliminating
qualcom from the discussion if you need
real performance on the go at least on
Windows otherwise MacBooks are still
really good if you don't game little off
award kind of like this awkward segue um
to our sponsor acronis if you run a
business your it infrastructure is most
likely the backbone of your entire
company whether you're operating out of
one location or multiple ones with aonis
cyber protect you can relax knowing that
you're covered by Cutting Edge backup
security and Disaster Recovery
technology all integrated into one
platform they boast Ultra secure backup
and lightning fast recovery from
multi-side environments power powered by
Ai and machine learning to help keep
your data safe they allow you to manage
remote endpoints run vulnerability
assessments and handle patch management
all from one place plus with oneclick
self-service recovery anyone can fix it
issues quickly without relying on
Central it so simplify your business's
data protection and cyber security while
saving the money you would have
otherwise spent dealing with multiple
vendors by checking out acronis cyber
protect using the link in the video
description if you guys enjoyed this
video why not check out our revieww of
qualcomm's snapdragon X Elite
it's real impressive and I got to say
Alex I am enjoying daily driving it I've
had no issues so far